doc/reference/std/debug.md, before:

# Debugging Libraries

These are miscallenous libraries useful for debugging running programs.

## Heap debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/heap)
:::

### memory-usage
```scheme
(memory-usage)
```

Aggregates useful memory statistics.

Example:
```scheme
> (memory-usage)
((gc-heap-size . 31101000)
 (gc-alloc . 35786424)
 (gc-live . 12172776)
 (gc-movable . 11480480)
 (gc-still . 692296))

```

### heap-type-stats
```scheme
(heap-type-stats) -> (values live-objects type-table)
```

Returns two values, the number of live objects and a table containing
a count for each type of live object.

### dump-heap-stats!
```scheme
(dump-heap-stats! (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps the current live heap statistics to `port`.

Example:
```scheme
> (dump-heap-stats!)
=== memory usage ===
gc-heap-size: 31118680
gc-alloc: 72143824
gc-live: 12403320
gc-movable: 11693344
gc-still: 709976
=== heap summary ===
objects: 185028
still: 73
refcounted: 1
=== heap type counts ===
pair 59812
gx#import-binding::t 26592
gx#module-import::t 23607
string 17595
symbol 16772
gx#syntax-quote::t 11961
gx#module-export::t 7968
procedure 7476
vector 6542
gx#module-binding::t 2065
gx#extern-binding::t 1551
gx#syntax-binding::t 523
gx#macro-expander::t 357
bignum 311
##type-6-F3F63A41-2974-4D41-8B24-1744E866741D 251
weak 226
##type-5 166
keyword 164
gx#import-set::t 126
foreign 111
promise 103
gx#export-set::t 81
gx#context-phi::t 62
gx#module-context::t 58
gx#private-feature-expander::t 58
gerbil.core#runtime-struct-exhibitor::t 49
gerbil.core#extended-stuct-info::t 49
std/generic/macros#primitive-type-info::t 36
gerbil.core#extended-class-info::t 27
gerbil.core#runtime-class-exhibitor::t 27
std/generic/macros#builtin-type-info::t 21
gx#expander-mark::t 21
##type-11-42fe9aac-e9c6-4227-893e-a0ad76f58932 19
gx#alias-binding::t 19
gx#rename-macro-expander::t 18
box 18
gx#expression-form::t 15
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-special-form::t 13
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-expression::t 12
gerbil.core#runtime-class-info::t 10
gx#core-macro::t 10
u8vector 9
gx#reserved-expander::t 8
gerbil#AST::t 8
gx#top-special-form::t 8
gx#feature-expander::t 7
u16vector 6
##type-11-6bd864f0-27ec-4639-8044-cf7c0135d716 6
gx#export-expander::t 5
gx#import-expander::t 5
##type-49-a1d146d0-78f6-437f-aa67-3b9b5bb333dc 4
s32vector 4
f64vector 4
gx#definition-form::t 4
##type-41-B1E5C9EE-B4F9-4D3C-AACD-FE12D696101F 4
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-form::t 4
gx#prelude-context::t 3
frame 2
##type-2-EACE4200-EB43-4891-852A-03C7B5D385E4 2
gx#import-export-expander::t 2
gx#module-special-form::t 2
unknown 2
gx#top-binding::t 2
continuation 2
gx#special-form::t 2
##type-7-cd5f5bad-f96f-438d-8d63-ff887b7b39de 2
##type-15-713f0ba8-1d76-4a68-8dfa-eaebd4aef1e3 2
gerbil/runtime/eval#__context::t 2
std/generic/dispatch#generic-table::t 1
std/generic/dispatch#generic::t 1
std/generic/macros#generic-info::t 1
##type-34-d05e0aa7-e235-441d-aa41-c1ac02065460 1
flonum 1
std/interface#interface-info::t 1
std/interface#interface-descriptor::t 1
gx#top-context::t 1
##type-8-1b002758-f900-4e96-be5e-fa407e331fc0 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#Operation::t 1
std/iter#:iter-end::t 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#LinearAccumulator::t 1
gx#root-context::t 1
##type-21-A6899D11-290C-42A6-B47A-57C6B908698F 1
##type-17-D7D5784C-16DC-4453-8832-CC05A6FE9353 1
```

### walk-heap!
```scheme
(walk-heap! walk: (walk #f) root: (root #f)) -> hash-table
```

Walks the heap, optionally starting from the specified `root` object
and optionally using `walk` as the function for walking container objects.

Returns a table of all visited objects.

### count-still
```scheme
(count-still) -> (values still refcounted)
```

Returns two values: the number of still objects and how many of them are
reference counted in the heap.

### still-objects
```scheme
(still-objects ...)
```

Counts the still objects in the heap.

### still-objects/refcount
```scheme
(still-objects/refcount ...)
```

Counts the reference counted objects in the heap.


## Memory leak debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/memleak)
:::

### heap-summary
```scheme
(heap-summary)
```

Returns a differentiable heap summary.

### heap-summary-delta
```scheme
(heap-summary-delta old new)
```

Differentiates two heap summaries.

### dump-heap-summary!
```scheme
(dump-heap-summary! summary (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps a heap summary to `port`.

Example:
```scheme
> (dump-heap-summary! (heap-summary))
==================================
timestamp: 1696260626.4030066
=== memory usage ===
gc-heap-size: 32177600
gc-live: 12572848
gc-movable: 11852528
gc-still: 720320
=== heap summary ===
objects: 187230
still: 74
refcounted: 1
=== heap type counts ===
pair: 60419
gx#import-binding::t: 27122
gx#module-import::t: 24133
string: 17807
symbol: 16977
gx#syntax-quote::t: 12013
gx#module-export::t: 7972
procedure: 7490
vector: 6567
gx#module-binding::t: 2078
gx#extern-binding::t: 1551
gx#syntax-binding::t: 524
gx#macro-expander::t: 357
bignum: 311
##type-6-F3F63A41-2974-4D41-8B24-1744E866741D: 252
weak: 227
keyword: 167
##type-5: 166
gx#import-set::t: 129
foreign: 112
promise: 104
gx#export-set::t: 81
gx#context-phi::t: 62
gx#module-context::t: 59
gx#private-feature-expander::t: 59
gerbil.core#runtime-struct-exhibitor::t: 49
gerbil.core#extended-stuct-info::t: 49
std/generic/macros#primitive-type-info::t: 36
gerbil.core#extended-class-info::t: 27
gerbil.core#runtime-class-exhibitor::t: 27
std/generic/macros#builtin-type-info::t: 21
gx#expander-mark::t: 21
##type-11-42fe9aac-e9c6-4227-893e-a0ad76f58932: 19
gx#alias-binding::t: 19
gx#rename-macro-expander::t: 18
box: 18
gx#expression-form::t: 15
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-special-form::t: 13
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-expression::t: 12
gerbil.core#runtime-class-info::t: 10
gx#core-macro::t: 10
u8vector: 9
gerbil#AST::t: 9
gx#reserved-expander::t: 8
gx#top-special-form::t: 8
gx#feature-expander::t: 7
u16vector: 6
##type-11-6bd864f0-27ec-4639-8044-cf7c0135d716: 6
gx#export-expander::t: 5
gx#import-expander::t: 5
##type-49-a1d146d0-78f6-437f-aa67-3b9b5bb333dc: 4
s32vector: 4
f64vector: 4
gx#definition-form::t: 4
##type-41-B1E5C9EE-B4F9-4D3C-AACD-FE12D696101F: 4
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-form::t: 4
gx#prelude-context::t: 3
frame: 2
##type-2-EACE4200-EB43-4891-852A-03C7B5D385E4: 2
gx#import-export-expander::t: 2
gx#module-special-form::t: 2
unknown: 2
gx#top-binding::t: 2
continuation: 2
gx#special-form::t: 2
##type-7-cd5f5bad-f96f-438d-8d63-ff887b7b39de: 2
##type-15-713f0ba8-1d76-4a68-8dfa-eaebd4aef1e3: 2
gerbil/runtime/eval#__context::t: 2
std/generic/dispatch#generic::t: 1
std/generic/dispatch#generic-table::t: 1
std/generic/macros#generic-info::t: 1
##type-34-d05e0aa7-e235-441d-aa41-c1ac02065460: 1
flonum: 1
std/interface#interface-descriptor::t: 1
std/interface#interface-info::t: 1
gx#top-context::t: 1
##type-8-1b002758-f900-4e96-be5e-fa407e331fc0: 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#Operation::t: 1
std/iter#:iter-end::t: 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#LinearAccumulator::t: 1
gx#root-context::t: 1
##type-21-A6899D11-290C-42A6-B47A-57C6B908698F: 1
##type-17-D7D5784C-16DC-4453-8832-CC05A6FE9353: 1
=== frame counts ===
##with-no-result-expected-toplevel: 1
##kernel-handlers: 1
==================================
```

### watch-heap!
```scheme
(watch-heap! (port (current-error-port))
              delay: (initial-delay 60)
              period: (period (* 60 15))
              dump: (dump! dump-heap-summary!))
```

Watches the heap and dumps differential heap summaries with `period`,
after `initial-delay`.


## Thread debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/threads)
:::

### dump-all-threads!
```scheme
(dump-all-threads! (port (current-error-port))
                   (filter true))
```

Dumps the state of all threads that satisfy the `filter` procedure.


### dump-all-threads/queue!
```scheme
(dump-all-threads/queue! (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps all threads with a non empty message queue (mailbox).


### dump-thread-group!
```scheme
(dump-thread-group! (tg (current-thread-group))
                    (port (current-error-port))
                    (filter true))
```

Dumps all threads in the specified thread group `tg`, that satisfy
the filter `filter`.


### dump-thread-group!*
```scheme
(dump-thread-group!* (tg (current-thread-group))
                          (port (current-error-port))
                          (filter true))
```

Like `dump-thread-group!`, but also recursively dumps all child thread groups.

### dump-thread!
```scheme
(dump-thread! thread (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps the state of a thread, including the size of its message queue
and stack trace.

### dump-thread-stack-trace!
```scheme
(dump-thread-stack-trace! thread (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps a thread's stack trace.

### thread-queue-length
```scheme
(thread-queue-length thread)
```

Returns the current length of a thread's message queue.

### thread-queue-empty?
```scheme
(thread-queue-empty? thread)
```

Returns true if the `thread`'s message queue is empty.


## Print-debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/DBG)
:::

### DBG
```scheme
(DBG tag expr1 ... exprN) => values-of-the-last-expression
```

If the `tag` doesn't evaluate to `#f`, print the tag, then on separate lines
the source of each expression `expr1` to `exprN` (as by `write`)
followed by its single or multiple return values (as by `prn`).
Finally, return the values of the last expression `exprN`.

You can easily wrap an expression in a `DBG` form so as to print its value,
together with the values of other relevant expressions,
when trying to figure out where and how evaluation is failing your expectations
in some part of your code.

Example:
```scheme
> (define-values (x y z) (values 1 2 3))
> (* 10 (DBG foo: x (values [(+ x y) z] #t) (+ x y z)))
foo
  x => 1
  (values (@list (+ x y) z) #t) => [3 3] #t
  (+ x y z) => 6
60
```
In the above example the tag `foo` and the indented lines are printed by `DBG`,
whereas the 60 is the final value returned and printed by the REPL.
Notice how the `DBG` form returns the value of the last expression, 6,
that subsequently got multiplied by 10 as per regular evaluation,
to result in the final 60.

### DBG-helper
```
(DBG-helper tag dbg-exprs dbg-thunks expr thunk) => values of the thunk
```

This is the function that `DBG` expands into, taking as parameters
the `tag`, a list `dbg-exprs` of all-but-the-last expressions (quoted),
a list `dbg-thunks` of thunks for all-but-the-last expressions,
then the last expression `expr` (quoted) and the `thunk` for it.
Your code can conceivably expand to calls to `DBG-helper` with e.g.
suitable wrappings to tweak what expressions are printed.

Commit message:

Use c3 linearization in the MOP (#1033)
Runtime improvements

MOP:
- Use c3 linearization for class precedence list.
- Implement and use the C3 linearization algorithm for multiple inheritance.
- Unify struct fields and class slots, using struct inheritance then class precedence list for slot order. This improves on previous semantics, but introduces a slight incompatibility and will require updating the optimizer.
- Accordingly update various modules in std.

Also:
- Define defmutable in prelude.
- Add a (dump-backtrace?) parameter to control backtrace printing.
- Support build-manifest in the runtime.
- Move DBG macro in the runtime for past and future debugging.

Regenerate bootstrap.

doc/reference/std/debug.md, after:

# Debugging Libraries

These are miscallenous libraries useful for debugging running programs.

## Heap debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/heap)
:::

### memory-usage
```scheme
(memory-usage)
```

Aggregates useful memory statistics.

Example:
```scheme
> (memory-usage)
((gc-heap-size . 31101000)
 (gc-alloc . 35786424)
 (gc-live . 12172776)
 (gc-movable . 11480480)
 (gc-still . 692296))

```

### heap-type-stats
```scheme
(heap-type-stats) -> (values live-objects type-table)
```

Returns two values, the number of live objects and a table containing
a count for each type of live object.

### dump-heap-stats!
```scheme
(dump-heap-stats! (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps the current live heap statistics to `port`.

Example:
```scheme
> (dump-heap-stats!)
=== memory usage ===
gc-heap-size: 31118680
gc-alloc: 72143824
gc-live: 12403320
gc-movable: 11693344
gc-still: 709976
=== heap summary ===
objects: 185028
still: 73
refcounted: 1
=== heap type counts ===
pair 59812
gx#import-binding::t 26592
gx#module-import::t 23607
string 17595
symbol 16772
gx#syntax-quote::t 11961
gx#module-export::t 7968
procedure 7476
vector 6542
gx#module-binding::t 2065
gx#extern-binding::t 1551
gx#syntax-binding::t 523
gx#macro-expander::t 357
bignum 311
##type-6-F3F63A41-2974-4D41-8B24-1744E866741D 251
weak 226
##type-5 166
keyword 164
gx#import-set::t 126
foreign 111
promise 103
gx#export-set::t 81
gx#context-phi::t 62
gx#module-context::t 58
gx#private-feature-expander::t 58
gerbil.core#runtime-struct-exhibitor::t 49
gerbil.core#extended-stuct-info::t 49
std/generic/macros#primitive-type-info::t 36
gerbil.core#extended-class-info::t 27
gerbil.core#runtime-class-exhibitor::t 27
std/generic/macros#builtin-type-info::t 21
gx#expander-mark::t 21
##type-11-42fe9aac-e9c6-4227-893e-a0ad76f58932 19
gx#alias-binding::t 19
gx#rename-macro-expander::t 18
box 18
gx#expression-form::t 15
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-special-form::t 13
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-expression::t 12
gerbil.core#runtime-class-info::t 10
gx#core-macro::t 10
u8vector 9
gx#reserved-expander::t 8
gerbil#AST::t 8
gx#top-special-form::t 8
gx#feature-expander::t 7
u16vector 6
##type-11-6bd864f0-27ec-4639-8044-cf7c0135d716 6
gx#export-expander::t 5
gx#import-expander::t 5
##type-49-a1d146d0-78f6-437f-aa67-3b9b5bb333dc 4
s32vector 4
f64vector 4
gx#definition-form::t 4
##type-41-B1E5C9EE-B4F9-4D3C-AACD-FE12D696101F 4
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-form::t 4
gx#prelude-context::t 3
frame 2
##type-2-EACE4200-EB43-4891-852A-03C7B5D385E4 2
gx#import-export-expander::t 2
gx#module-special-form::t 2
unknown 2
gx#top-binding::t 2
continuation 2
gx#special-form::t 2
##type-7-cd5f5bad-f96f-438d-8d63-ff887b7b39de 2
##type-15-713f0ba8-1d76-4a68-8dfa-eaebd4aef1e3 2
gerbil/runtime/eval#__context::t 2
std/generic/dispatch#generic-table::t 1
std/generic/dispatch#generic::t 1
std/generic/macros#generic-info::t 1
##type-34-d05e0aa7-e235-441d-aa41-c1ac02065460 1
flonum 1
std/interface#interface-info::t 1
std/interface#interface-descriptor::t 1
gx#top-context::t 1
##type-8-1b002758-f900-4e96-be5e-fa407e331fc0 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#Operation::t 1
std/iter#:iter-end::t 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#LinearAccumulator::t 1
gx#root-context::t 1
##type-21-A6899D11-290C-42A6-B47A-57C6B908698F 1
##type-17-D7D5784C-16DC-4453-8832-CC05A6FE9353 1
```

### walk-heap!
```scheme
(walk-heap! walk: (walk #f) root: (root #f)) -> hash-table
```

Walks the heap, optionally starting from the specified `root` object
and optionally using `walk` as the function for walking container objects.

Returns a table of all visited objects.

### count-still
```scheme
(count-still) -> (values still refcounted)
```

Returns two values: the number of still objects and how many of them are
reference counted in the heap.

### still-objects
```scheme
(still-objects ...)
```

Counts the still objects in the heap.

### still-objects/refcount
```scheme
(still-objects/refcount ...)
```

Counts the reference counted objects in the heap.


## Memory leak debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/memleak)
:::

### heap-summary
```scheme
(heap-summary)
```

Returns a differentiable heap summary.

### heap-summary-delta
```scheme
(heap-summary-delta old new)
```

Differentiates two heap summaries.

### dump-heap-summary!
```scheme
(dump-heap-summary! summary (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps a heap summary to `port`.

Example:
```scheme
> (dump-heap-summary! (heap-summary))
==================================
timestamp: 1696260626.4030066
=== memory usage ===
gc-heap-size: 32177600
gc-live: 12572848
gc-movable: 11852528
gc-still: 720320
=== heap summary ===
objects: 187230
still: 74
refcounted: 1
=== heap type counts ===
pair: 60419
gx#import-binding::t: 27122
gx#module-import::t: 24133
string: 17807
symbol: 16977
gx#syntax-quote::t: 12013
gx#module-export::t: 7972
procedure: 7490
vector: 6567
gx#module-binding::t: 2078
gx#extern-binding::t: 1551
gx#syntax-binding::t: 524
gx#macro-expander::t: 357
bignum: 311
##type-6-F3F63A41-2974-4D41-8B24-1744E866741D: 252
weak: 227
keyword: 167
##type-5: 166
gx#import-set::t: 129
foreign: 112
promise: 104
gx#export-set::t: 81
gx#context-phi::t: 62
gx#module-context::t: 59
gx#private-feature-expander::t: 59
gerbil.core#runtime-struct-exhibitor::t: 49
gerbil.core#extended-stuct-info::t: 49
std/generic/macros#primitive-type-info::t: 36
gerbil.core#extended-class-info::t: 27
gerbil.core#runtime-class-exhibitor::t: 27
std/generic/macros#builtin-type-info::t: 21
gx#expander-mark::t: 21
##type-11-42fe9aac-e9c6-4227-893e-a0ad76f58932: 19
gx#alias-binding::t: 19
gx#rename-macro-expander::t: 18
box: 18
gx#expression-form::t: 15
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-special-form::t: 13
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-expression::t: 12
gerbil.core#runtime-class-info::t: 10
gx#core-macro::t: 10
u8vector: 9
gerbil#AST::t: 9
gx#reserved-expander::t: 8
gx#top-special-form::t: 8
gx#feature-expander::t: 7
u16vector: 6
##type-11-6bd864f0-27ec-4639-8044-cf7c0135d716: 6
gx#export-expander::t: 5
gx#import-expander::t: 5
##type-49-a1d146d0-78f6-437f-aa67-3b9b5bb333dc: 4
s32vector: 4
f64vector: 4
gx#definition-form::t: 4
##type-41-B1E5C9EE-B4F9-4D3C-AACD-FE12D696101F: 4
gerbil/runtime/eval#__core-form::t: 4
gx#prelude-context::t: 3
frame: 2
##type-2-EACE4200-EB43-4891-852A-03C7B5D385E4: 2
gx#import-export-expander::t: 2
gx#module-special-form::t: 2
unknown: 2
gx#top-binding::t: 2
continuation: 2
gx#special-form::t: 2
##type-7-cd5f5bad-f96f-438d-8d63-ff887b7b39de: 2
##type-15-713f0ba8-1d76-4a68-8dfa-eaebd4aef1e3: 2
gerbil/runtime/eval#__context::t: 2
std/generic/dispatch#generic::t: 1
std/generic/dispatch#generic-table::t: 1
std/generic/macros#generic-info::t: 1
##type-34-d05e0aa7-e235-441d-aa41-c1ac02065460: 1
flonum: 1
std/interface#interface-descriptor::t: 1
std/interface#interface-info::t: 1
gx#top-context::t: 1
##type-8-1b002758-f900-4e96-be5e-fa407e331fc0: 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#Operation::t: 1
std/iter#:iter-end::t: 1
tmp/benchmark/interface/interface-lib#LinearAccumulator::t: 1
gx#root-context::t: 1
##type-21-A6899D11-290C-42A6-B47A-57C6B908698F: 1
##type-17-D7D5784C-16DC-4453-8832-CC05A6FE9353: 1
=== frame counts ===
##with-no-result-expected-toplevel: 1
##kernel-handlers: 1
==================================
```

### watch-heap!
```scheme
(watch-heap! (port (current-error-port))
              delay: (initial-delay 60)
              period: (period (* 60 15))
              dump: (dump! dump-heap-summary!))
```

Watches the heap and dumps differential heap summaries with `period`,
after `initial-delay`.


## Thread debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/threads)
:::

### dump-all-threads!
```scheme
(dump-all-threads! (port (current-error-port))
                   (filter true))
```

Dumps the state of all threads that satisfy the `filter` procedure.


### dump-all-threads/queue!
```scheme
(dump-all-threads/queue! (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps all threads with a non empty message queue (mailbox).


### dump-thread-group!
```scheme
(dump-thread-group! (tg (current-thread-group))
                    (port (current-error-port))
                    (filter true))
```

Dumps all threads in the specified thread group `tg`, that satisfy
the filter `filter`.


### dump-thread-group!*
```scheme
(dump-thread-group!* (tg (current-thread-group))
                          (port (current-error-port))
                          (filter true))
```

Like `dump-thread-group!`, but also recursively dumps all child thread groups.

### dump-thread!
```scheme
(dump-thread! thread (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps the state of a thread, including the size of its message queue
and stack trace.

### dump-thread-stack-trace!
```scheme
(dump-thread-stack-trace! thread (port (current-error-port)))
```

Dumps a thread's stack trace.

### thread-queue-length
```scheme
(thread-queue-length thread)
```

Returns the current length of a thread's message queue.

### thread-queue-empty?
```scheme
(thread-queue-empty? thread)
```

Returns true if the `thread`'s message queue is empty.


## Print-debugging utilities
::: tip To use bindings from this module
(import :std/debug/DBG)
:::

### DBG
```scheme
(DBG tag expr1 ... exprN) => values-of-the-last-expression
```

If the `tag` doesn't evaluate to `#f`, print the tag, then on separate lines
the source of each expression `expr1` to `exprN` (as by `write`)
followed by its single or multiple return values (as by `prn`).
When an expression is preceded by a quoted form (as in `'form`)
then that form is printed instead of the following expression
(which can help when the expression is large and uninformative to print).
Finally, return the values of the last expression `exprN`.

You can easily wrap an expression in a `DBG` form so as to print its value,
together with the values of other relevant expressions,
when trying to figure out where and how evaluation is failing your expectations
in some part of your code.

Example:
```scheme
> (define-values (x y z) (values 1 2 3))
> (* 10 (DBG foo: x (values [(+ x y) z] #t) 'result (+ x y z)))
foo
  x => 1
  (values (@list (+ x y) z) #t) => [3 3] #t
  result => 6
60
```
In the above example the tag `foo` and the indented lines are printed by `DBG`,
whereas the 60 is the final value returned and printed by the REPL.
Notice how the `DBG` form returns the value of the last expression, 6,
that subsequently got multiplied by 10 as per regular evaluation,
to result in the final 60.

### DBG-helper
```
(DBG-helper tag dbg-exprs dbg-thunks expr thunk) => values of the thunk
```

This is the function that `DBG` expands into, taking as parameters
the `tag`, a list `dbg-exprs` of all-but-the-last expressions (quoted),
a list `dbg-thunks` of thunks for all-but-the-last expressions,
then the last expression `expr` (quoted) and the `thunk` for it.
Your code can conceivably expand to calls to `DBG-helper` with e.g.
suitable wrappings to tweak what expressions are printed.
