doc/reference/std/errors.md, before:

# Exceptions and Errors

The `:std/error` library provides base classes for exceptions and errors.

::: tip usage
(import :std/error)
:::

## The root of the hierarchy

The exception hierarchy is rooted in two base classes: `Error` and `Exception`.
- Instances of `Error` indicate error conditions, and they have a
  standard payload of a message, a subsystem or procedure name where
  the error originated, and a list of irritants.
  `Error` mixes in `StackTrace` which allows the system to fill stack traces
  -- see `raise` below.
- Instances of `Exception` indicate exceptional conditions that are
  not necessarily errors, and do not have a standard payload.
  `Exception` does not mix `StackTrace`, as it is possible to use `Exception`
  instances for control flow, in which case it would be inappropriate to include
  stack traces without the programmer's consent.

### Exception
```scheme
(defclass Exception ...)
```

The base class for naked exception objects; there are no fields or slots in this class.

### Exception?
```scheme
(Exception? obj)
```

Predicate for `Exception` instances

### RuntimeException
```scheme
(defclass (RuntimeException Exception ...) ...)
```

Wrapper class for exceptions generated by the gambit runtime, such
that a stack trace can be attached.

The original exception is available at the `exception` slot.

### RuntimeException?
```scheme
(RuntimeException? obj)
```

Predicate for `RuntimeException` instances.

### StackTrace
```scheme
(defclass StackTrace (continuation))
```

Mixin class for stack traces in errors.

If an exception class that mixes in `StackTrace` is raised by this module's
redefined `raise` (see below), then the current continuation will be
captured (if not already captured) and stored in the `continuation`
slot. The continuation backtrace will be displayed by
`Error::display-exception` to facilitate debugging.


### StackTrace?
```scheme
StackTrace?
```

Predicate for `StackTrace` mixins.


### Error
```scheme
(defclass (Error StackTrace ...) ...)

(Error message irritants: (irritants []) where: (where #f))
```
The base class for errors.

The constructor takes a required argument (`message`) and two optional keyword arguments:
- `message`; this the error message to display to the user.
- `irritants`; this is a list of objects related to the error condition.
- `where`; this is usually a symbol (may be false) indicating the source of the error.

### Error?
```scheme
(Error? obj)
```

Predicate for `Error` instances.

### Error-message
```scheme
(Error-message err) -> string
  err := instance of Error
```

Accessor for the error message.

### Error-irritants
```scheme
(Error-irritants err) -> list
  err := instance of Error
```

Accessor for the error irritants.

### Error-where
```scheme
(Error-where err) -> any
  err := instance of Error
```

Accessor for the error origin.

### Error:::init!
```scheme
(Error:::init! err message irritants: (irritants []) where: (where #f))
  err := instance of Error
```

The base `Error` constructor, which error subclasses can call to
initialize the base error reprsentation.

### Error::display-exception
```scheme
(Error::display-exception err port)
  err  := instance of Error
  port := output port
```

Base method for displaying Errors, including a stack trace if
available; see `StackTrace` below.


## Standard Error Classes

The following are predefined classes with standard semantics, used
througout the standard library.

### ContractViolation
```scheme
(defclass (ContractViolation StackTrace Error) ())
```

Error indicating an input parameter contract violation condition.

### ContractViolation?
```scheme
(ContractViolation? exn)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a contract violation condition.

### contract-violation-error?
```scheme
(def contract-violation-error! ContractViolation?)
```

Same as `ContractViolation?`.

### IOError
```scheme
(defclass (IOError StackTrace Error) ())
```

Error indicating an IO condition.

### IOError?
```scheme
(IOError? exn)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is an IO condition.

### io-error?
```scheme
(def io-error? IOError?
```

same as `IOError?`

### PrematureEndOfInput
```scheme
(defclass (PrematureEndOfInput IOError) ())
```

Error indicating that input was exhausted prematurely; similar to EOF
exceptions in other languages.

### PrematureEndOfInput?
```scheme
(PrematureEndOfInput? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a premature end of input condition.

### premature-end-of-input-error?
```scheme
(def permature-end-of-input? PrematureEndOfInput?)
```

Same as `PrematureEndOfInput?`.

### IOClosed
```scheme
(deferror-class (IOClosed IOError))
```

Error indicating that the IO sink or source has been closed and thus
no further IO operations can be performed.

### IOClosed?
```scheme
(IOClosed? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is an IO closed condition.

### io-closed-error?
```scheme
(def io-closed-error? IOClosed?)
```

Same as `IOClosed?`.

### Timeout
```scheme
(deferror-class Timeout)
```

Error indicating that some operation has timed out.

### Timeout?
```scheme
(Timeout? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a timeout.

### timeout-error?
```scheme
(def timeout-error? Timeout?)
```

Same as `Timeout?`.

### ContextError
```scheme
(deferror-class ContextError)
```

Error indicating that some operation was performed out of context.

### ContextError?
```scheme
(ContextError? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a context error

### context-error?
```scheme
(def context-error? ContextError?)
```

Same as `ContextError?`.

### UnboundKey
```scheme
(deferror-class UnboundKey)
```

Error indicating that some lookup operation failed because a key was unbound.

### UnboundKey?
```scheme
(UnboundKey? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the condition is an unbound key error

### unbound-key-error?
```scheme
(def unbound-key-error? UnboundKey?)
```

Same as `UnboundKey?`.

## Raising exceptions

The library redefines `raise` and `error` so that it fills stack
traces where appropriate.
It also provides some utility procedure for raising particular errors
without caring about the particulars of the condition system.

### error
```scheme
(error message irritant ...)
```

Like basic Scheme's `error`, but raises with stack trace.

### raise
```scheme
(raise exn)
```

Raises an exception condition.

If the exception object is an instance of `StackTrace`, then unless
there is already a continuation because this is a re-raise, the
continuation is captured and stored in the `continuation` slot.

### check-argument
```scheme
(check-argument expr expectation argument)
  expr := a boolean expression
  expectation := a string describing the expectation
  argument := the argument being checked for reporting purposes.
```

Evaluates the boolean expression `expr` and raises a contract violation if it is `#f`.

### raise-contract-violation
```scheme
(raise-contract-violation where contract irritant ...)
```

Raises a `ContractViolation` condition.

### raise-io-error
```scheme
(raise-io-error where message . irritants)
```

Raises an `IOError` condition.

### raise-premature-end-of-input
```scheme
(raise-premature-end-of-input where . irritants)
```
p
Raises a `PrematureEndOfInput` condition.

### raise-io-closed
```scheme
(raise-io-closed where message . irritants)
```

Raises an `IOClosed` condition.

### raise-timeout
```scheme
(raise-timeout where message . irritants)
```

Raises a `Timeout` condition.

### raise-context-error
```scheme
(raise-context-error where message . irritants)
```

Raise a `ContextError` condition.

### raise-key-error
```scheme
(raise-key-error where message . irritants)
```

Raise a `KeyError` condition.

## BUGS

Sometimes something that really shouldn't happen, but it did; because, Murphy.

### BUG
```scheme
(BUG where message . irritants)
```

Raise a bug condition.

### is-it-bug?
```scheme
(is-it-bug? obj)
```

Checks whether an error condition was caused by a something unexpected, a bug.

## Defining custom Error classes

The library offers a utility macro to define error classes that follow
the standard library conventions. You don't have to use it, but if you
are building a library it is recommended to do so.

### deferror-class
```scheme
(deferror-class Class slots predicate-alias [constructor = Error:::init!])
(deferror-class (Class Mixin ...) slots predicate-alias [constructor = Error:::init!])
```

The first form defines a class `Class` with slots `slots` that extends
`Error`, mixing in `StackTrace`.  It also defines a predicate alias
for the class's instance predicate that can be exported to hide the
internal error details.

## Dumping stack traces

It is useful to invoke a thunk and dump an exception stack trace if it
raises; this can be accomplished with the `with-exception-stack-trace`
and `dump-stack-trace!` utility procedures.

This can be useful when you are dealing with exceptions that do not
mixin `StackTrace` (which will automatically dump the stack trace when
displaying the exception with `display-exception`).

### with-exception-stack-trace
```scheme
(with-exception-stack-trace thunk (error-port (current-error-port)))
```

Invokes `thunk` with an exception handler that dumps the exception
stack trace with `dump-stack-trace!`.

### dump-stack-trace!
```scheme
(dump-stack-trace! cont exn (error-port (current-error-port)))
```

Displays the exception `exn`, dumping the stack trace of continuation
`cont` if there is no stack trace information in the exception itself.

### exit-with-error
```scheme
(exit-with-error exception) => [exit]
```
Display the `exception` to current error port and exit with error code 2.

### exit-on-error?
```scheme
(def exit-on-error? (make-parameter #t))
```
This parameter controls whether `call-with-exit-on-error`, `with-exit-on-error`,
`call-with-getopt`, and any function that indirectly uses them,
will exit if an error is caught, rather than pass on the error
and return to the REPL (or let a more fundamental function exit).

### call-with-exit-on-error
```scheme
(call-with-exit-on-error thunk)
```
Calls the `thunk` in an environment wherein if an error is caught and
`(exit-on-error)` is true, `exit-with-error` will be called,
causing an error message to be printed and the process to exit with exit code 2.
If `(exit-on-error)` is false, the error will simply be raised again.

This mechanism enables users to modify the parameter
(e.g. via a flag passed at the Unix CLI or a change made at the Scheme REPL)
and control whether to exit with an error (e.g. for end-users)
or enter a debugger REPL (e.g. for developers).

### with-exit-on-error
```scheme
(with-exit-on-error body ...)
```
Evaluates the `body` as in a `thunk` passed to `call-with-exit-on-error`.

Commit message:

Runtime improvements: use c3 linearization, etc.
Use c3 linearization for the class precedence list.
Use the class precedence list for the slot index allocation.
Test and document it all.

Define defmutable in prelude.

Add a (dump-backtrace?) parameter to control backtrace printing.

Support build-manifest in the runtime.

Distinguish cases of "Bad syntax".

Regenerate the runtime bootstrap.

std/misc/rtd: add type=?

Integrate feedback from review.

Fix c3-test for destructive operations

More review feedback

Checkpointing progress with MOP refactoring

doc/reference/std/errors.md, after:

# Exceptions and Errors

The `:std/error` library provides base classes for exceptions and errors.

::: tip usage
(import :std/error)
:::

## The root of the hierarchy

The exception hierarchy is rooted in two base classes: `Error` and `Exception`.
- Instances of `Error` indicate error conditions, and they have a
  standard payload of a message, a subsystem or procedure name where
  the error originated, and a list of irritants.
  `Error` mixes in `StackTrace` which allows the system to fill stack traces
  -- see `raise` below.
- Instances of `Exception` indicate exceptional conditions that are
  not necessarily errors, and do not have a standard payload.
  `Exception` does not mix `StackTrace`, as it is possible to use `Exception`
  instances for control flow, in which case it would be inappropriate to include
  stack traces without the programmer's consent.

### Exception
```scheme
(defclass Exception ...)
```

The base class for naked exception objects; there are no fields or slots in this class.

### Exception?
```scheme
(Exception? obj)
```

Predicate for `Exception` instances

### RuntimeException
```scheme
(defclass (RuntimeException Exception ...) ...)
```

Wrapper class for exceptions generated by the gambit runtime, such
that a stack trace can be attached.

The original exception is available at the `exception` slot.

### RuntimeException?
```scheme
(RuntimeException? obj)
```

Predicate for `RuntimeException` instances.

### StackTrace
```scheme
(defclass StackTrace (continuation))
```

Mixin class for stack traces in errors.

If an exception class that mixes in `StackTrace` is raised by this module's
redefined `raise` (see below), then the current continuation will be
captured (if not already captured) and stored in the `continuation`
slot. The continuation backtrace will be displayed by
`Error::display-exception` to facilitate debugging.


### StackTrace?
```scheme
StackTrace?
```

Predicate for `StackTrace` mixins.


### Error
```scheme
(defclass (Error StackTrace ...) ...)

(Error message irritants: (irritants []) where: (where #f))
```
The base class for errors.

The constructor takes a required argument (`message`) and two optional keyword arguments:
- `message`; this the error message to display to the user.
- `irritants`; this is a list of objects related to the error condition.
- `where`; this is usually a symbol (may be false) indicating the source of the error.

### Error?
```scheme
(Error? obj)
```

Predicate for `Error` instances.

### Error-message
```scheme
(Error-message err) -> string
  err := instance of Error
```

Accessor for the error message.

### Error-irritants
```scheme
(Error-irritants err) -> list
  err := instance of Error
```

Accessor for the error irritants.

### Error-where
```scheme
(Error-where err) -> any
  err := instance of Error
```

Accessor for the error origin.

### Error:::init!
```scheme
(Error:::init! err message irritants: (irritants []) where: (where #f))
  err := instance of Error
```

The base `Error` constructor, which error subclasses can call to
initialize the base error reprsentation.

### Error::display-exception
```scheme
(Error::display-exception err port)
  err  := instance of Error
  port := output port
```

Base method for displaying Errors, including a stack trace if
available; see `StackTrace` below.


## Standard Error Classes

The following are predefined classes with standard semantics, used
througout the standard library.

### ContractViolation
```scheme
(defclass (ContractViolation StackTrace Error) ())
```

Error indicating an input parameter contract violation condition.

### ContractViolation?
```scheme
(ContractViolation? exn)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a contract violation condition.

### contract-violation-error?
```scheme
(def contract-violation-error! ContractViolation?)
```

Same as `ContractViolation?`.

### IOError
```scheme
(defclass (IOError StackTrace Error) ())
```

Error indicating an IO condition.

### IOError?
```scheme
(IOError? exn)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is an IO condition.

### io-error?
```scheme
(def io-error? IOError?
```

same as `IOError?`

### PrematureEndOfInput
```scheme
(defclass (PrematureEndOfInput IOError) ())
```

Error indicating that input was exhausted prematurely; similar to EOF
exceptions in other languages.

### PrematureEndOfInput?
```scheme
(PrematureEndOfInput? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a premature end of input condition.

### premature-end-of-input-error?
```scheme
(def permature-end-of-input? PrematureEndOfInput?)
```

Same as `PrematureEndOfInput?`.

### IOClosed
```scheme
(deferror-class (IOClosed IOError))
```

Error indicating that the IO sink or source has been closed and thus
no further IO operations can be performed.

### IOClosed?
```scheme
(IOClosed? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is an IO closed condition.

### io-closed-error?
```scheme
(def io-closed-error? IOClosed?)
```

Same as `IOClosed?`.

### Timeout
```scheme
(deferror-class Timeout)
```

Error indicating that some operation has timed out.

### Timeout?
```scheme
(Timeout? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a timeout.

### timeout-error?
```scheme
(def timeout-error? Timeout?)
```

Same as `Timeout?`.

### ContextError
```scheme
(deferror-class ContextError)
```

Error indicating that some operation was performed out of context.

### ContextError?
```scheme
(ContextError? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the error is a context error

### context-error?
```scheme
(def context-error? ContextError?)
```

Same as `ContextError?`.

### UnboundKey
```scheme
(deferror-class UnboundKey)
```

Error indicating that some lookup operation failed because a key was unbound.

### UnboundKey?
```scheme
(UnboundKey? obj)
```

Predicate testing whether the condition is an unbound key error

### unbound-key-error?
```scheme
(def unbound-key-error? UnboundKey?)
```

Same as `UnboundKey?`.

## Raising exceptions

The library redefines `raise` and `error` so that it fills stack
traces where appropriate.
It also provides some utility procedure for raising particular errors
without caring about the particulars of the condition system.

### error
```scheme
(error message irritant ...)
```

Like basic Scheme's `error`, but raises with stack trace.

### raise
```scheme
(raise exn)
```

Raises an exception condition.

If the exception object is an instance of `StackTrace`, then unless
there is already a continuation because this is a re-raise, the
continuation is captured and stored in the `continuation` slot.

### check-argument
```scheme
(check-argument expr expectation argument)
  expr := a boolean expression
  expectation := a string describing the expectation
  argument := the argument being checked for reporting purposes.
```

Evaluates the boolean expression `expr` and raises a contract violation if it is `#f`.

### raise-contract-violation
```scheme
(raise-contract-violation where contract irritant ...)
```

Raises a `ContractViolation` condition.

### raise-io-error
```scheme
(raise-io-error where message . irritants)
```

Raises an `IOError` condition.

### raise-premature-end-of-input
```scheme
(raise-premature-end-of-input where . irritants)
```
p
Raises a `PrematureEndOfInput` condition.

### raise-io-closed
```scheme
(raise-io-closed where message . irritants)
```

Raises an `IOClosed` condition.

### raise-timeout
```scheme
(raise-timeout where message . irritants)
```

Raises a `Timeout` condition.

### raise-context-error
```scheme
(raise-context-error where message . irritants)
```

Raise a `ContextError` condition.

### raise-key-error
```scheme
(raise-key-error where message . irritants)
```

Raise a `KeyError` condition.

## BUGS

Sometimes something that really shouldn't happen, but it did; because, Murphy.

### BUG
```scheme
(BUG where message . irritants)
```

Raise a bug condition.

### is-it-bug?
```scheme
(is-it-bug? obj)
```

Checks whether an error condition was caused by a something unexpected, a bug.

## Defining custom Error classes

The library offers a utility macro to define error classes that follow
the standard library conventions. You don't have to use it, but if you
are building a library it is recommended to do so.

### deferror-class
```scheme
(deferror-class Class slots predicate-alias [constructor = Error:::init!])
(deferror-class (Class Mixin ...) slots predicate-alias [constructor = Error:::init!])
```

The first form defines a class `Class` with slots `slots` that extends
`Error`, mixing in `StackTrace`.  It also defines a predicate alias
for the class's instance predicate that can be exported to hide the
internal error details.

## Dumping stack traces

It is useful to invoke a thunk and dump an exception stack trace if it
raises; this can be accomplished with the `with-exception-stack-trace`
and `dump-stack-trace!` utility procedures.

This can be useful when you are dealing with exceptions that do not
mixin `StackTrace` (which will automatically dump the stack trace when
displaying the exception with `display-exception`).

### with-exception-stack-trace
```scheme
(with-exception-stack-trace thunk (error-port (current-error-port)))
```

Invokes `thunk` with an exception handler that dumps the exception
stack trace with `dump-stack-trace!`
if `(dump-stack-trace?)` is true (the default).

### dump-stack-trace?
```scheme
(define dump-stack-trace? (make-parameter #t))
```
A parameter that controls whether `with-exception-stack-trace`
will actually dump a stack trace to standard error.

You can `(dump-stack-trace? #f)`
or locally `(parameterize ((dump-stack-trace? #f)) ...)`
to disable this stack trace dump,
in case you are building a program for end-users rather than for developers,
and want to control what limited error output they see.
Or you can re-enable them based on a debug flag at the CLI
in cases you want them to provide you with extra debugging information.

### dump-stack-trace!
```scheme
(dump-stack-trace! cont exn (error-port (current-error-port)))
```

Displays the exception `exn`, dumping the stack trace of continuation
`cont` if there is no stack trace information in the exception itself.

### exit-with-error
```scheme
(exit-with-error exception) => [exit]
```
Display the `exception` to current error port and exit with error code 2.

### exit-on-error?
```scheme
(def exit-on-error? (make-parameter #t))
```
This parameter controls whether `call-with-exit-on-error`, `with-exit-on-error`,
`call-with-getopt`, and any function that indirectly uses them,
will exit if an error is caught, rather than pass on the error
and return to the REPL (or let a more fundamental function exit).

### call-with-exit-on-error
```scheme
(call-with-exit-on-error thunk)
```
Calls the `thunk` in an environment wherein if an error is caught and
`(exit-on-error)` is true, `exit-with-error` will be called,
causing an error message to be printed and the process to exit with exit code 2.
If `(exit-on-error)` is false, the error will simply be raised again.

This mechanism enables users to modify the parameter
(e.g. via a flag passed at the Unix CLI or a change made at the Scheme REPL)
and control whether to exit with an error (e.g. for end-users)
or enter a debugger REPL (e.g. for developers).

### with-exit-on-error
```scheme
(with-exit-on-error body ...)
```
Evaluates the `body` as in a `thunk` passed to `call-with-exit-on-error`.
