doc/reference/std/misc/rtd.md, before:

# Type Descriptor Utilities.
::: tip To use the bindings from this module:
``` scheme
(import :std/misc/rtd)
```
:::

## object-type
``` scheme
(object-type obj) -> type | error

  obj := object instance
```

Safe variant of `runtime#object-type`. Returns the class of an object; *obj*
must be an object instance or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct point (x y))
> (object-type (make-point 640 480))
#<type #4 point>
> (eq? point::t #4)
#t
> (object-type 12)
error    ; not segfaulting like runtime#object-type
```
:::

## type?
``` scheme
(type? typ) -> boolean

  typ := type object to check
```

Returns `#t` if *obj* is a type object, `#f` otherwise.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct point (x y))
> (type? point::t)
#t
> (type? (object-type (make-point -100 100)))
#t
> (type? (make-point 0 0))
#f
```
:::

## type-id
``` scheme
(type-id typ) -> type id | error

  typ := type object to inspect
```

Returns the id of the type object *typ*. Will signal an error if *typ* isn't a
type object.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct a ())
> (defclass  b ())
> (type-id a::t)
#:a::t45
> (type-id b::t)
#:b::t49
> (type-id (object-type (make-b)))
#:b::t49
```
:::

## type-name
``` scheme
(type-name typ) -> type name | error

  typ := type object to inspect
```

Returns the name of the type object *typ*. Will signal an error if *typ* isn't a
type object.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct vec3i (x y z))
> (type-name (object-type (make-vec3i 30 0 15)))
vec3i
```
:::

## type-super
``` scheme
(type-super typ) -> super class | error

  typ := type object to inspect
```

Returns the super class of the type object *typ*. Will signal an error if *typ*
isn't a type object.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct A (x y))
> (defstruct (B A) (z))
> (struct-subtype? A::t B::t)
#t
> (type-super B::t)
#<type #5 A>
> (type-super A::t)
#f
```
:::

## type-descriptor-mixin
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-mixin typ) -> list | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-mixin`. Returns the mixins of the type
as a list. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass A (x))
> (defclass (B A) (y))
> (defclass (C A) (z))
> (defclass (D B C) ())
> (type-descriptor-mixin D::t)
(#<type #8 B> #<type #9 C> #<type #10 A>)
> (type-descriptor-mixin B::t)
(#<type #10 A>)
> (type-descriptor-mixin A::t)
()
```
:::

## type-descriptor-fields
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-fields typ) -> fixnum | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-fields`. Returns the number of fields
of the type as a fixnum. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is
signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct color (r g b a))
> (type-descriptor-fields color::t)
4
```
:::

## type-descriptor-plist
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-plist typ) -> alist | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-plist`. Returns the type properties of
the type as an alist. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct vec4d (x y z w) final: #t)
> (type-descriptor-plist vec4d::t)
((fields: x y z w) (final: . #t))
```
:::

## type-descriptor-ctor
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-ctor typ) -> symbol | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-ctor`. Returns the constructor ID of
the type as a symbol. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass A (x) constructor: :init!)
> (defmethod {:init! A}
    (lambda (self x)
      (set! (A-x self) (* x 2))))
> (type-descriptor-ctor A::t)
:init!
```
:::

## type-descriptor-slots
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-slots typ) -> hash-table | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-slots`. Returns the slots of the type
as a hash-table. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass color (r g b a))
> (type-descriptor-slots color::t)
#<table #6>
> (hash->list #6)
((r . 0) (g . 1) (b . 2) (a: . 3) (g: . 1) (b: . 2) (r: . 0) (a . 3))
```
:::

## type-descriptor-methods
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-methods typ) -> hash-table | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-methods`. Returns the methods
associated with the type as a hash-table. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an
error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass A (x) constructor: :init!)
> (defmethod {:init! A}
    (lambda (self x)
      (set! (A-x self) (* x 2))))
> (type-descriptor-methods A::t)
#<table #11>
> (hash->list #11)
((:init! . #<procedure #12 A:::init!>))
```
:::

Commit message:

Runtime improvements: use c3 linearization, etc.
Use c3 linearization for the class precedence list.
Use the class precedence list for the slot index allocation.
Test and document it all.

Define defmutable in prelude.

Add a (dump-backtrace?) parameter to control backtrace printing.

Support build-manifest in the runtime.

Distinguish cases of "Bad syntax".

Regenerate the runtime bootstrap.

std/misc/rtd: add type=?

Integrate feedback from review.

Fix c3-test for destructive operations

More review feedback

Checkpointing progress with MOP refactoring

doc/reference/std/misc/rtd.md, after:

# Type Descriptor Utilities.
::: tip To use the bindings from this module:
``` scheme
(import :std/misc/rtd)
```
:::

## object-type
``` scheme
(object-type obj) -> type | error

  obj := object instance
```

Safe variant of `runtime#object-type`. Returns the class of an object; *obj*
must be an object instance or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct point (x y))
> (object-type (make-point 640 480))
#<type #4 point>
> (eq? point::t #4)
#t
> (object-type 12)
error    ; not segfaulting like runtime#object-type
```
:::

## type?
``` scheme
(type? typ) -> boolean

  typ := type object to check
```

Returns `#t` if *obj* is a type object, `#f` otherwise.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct point (x y))
> (type? point::t)
#t
> (type? (object-type (make-point -100 100)))
#t
> (type? (make-point 0 0))
#f
```
:::

## type-id
``` scheme
(type-id typ) -> type id | error

  typ := type object to inspect
```

Returns the id of the type object *typ*. Will signal an error if *typ* isn't a
type object.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct a ())
> (defclass  b ())
> (type-id a::t)
#:a::t45
> (type-id b::t)
#:b::t49
> (type-id (object-type (make-b)))
#:b::t49
```
:::

## type=?
``` scheme
(type=? typ1 type2) -> bool

  typ1 := type object
  typ2 := other type object
```

Returns true if the two type objects have the same `type-id`.
This is the preferred equality predicate for types.
`eq?` and `eqv?` should also work, but at present
`equal?` seems to be broken, by considering types as equal
that you would want to distinguish.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct a ())
> (defclass  b ())
> (type-id a::t)
#:a::t45
> (type-id b::t)
#:b::t49
> (type=? a::t a::t)
#t
> (type=? a::t b::t)
#f
```
:::

## type-name
``` scheme
(type-name typ) -> type name | error

  typ := type object to inspect
```

Returns the name of the type object *typ*. Will signal an error if *typ* isn't a
type object.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct vec3i (x y z))
> (type-name (object-type (make-vec3i 30 0 15)))
vec3i
```
:::

## type-super
``` scheme
(type-super typ) -> super class | error

  typ := type object to inspect
```

Returns the super class of the type object *typ*. Will signal an error if *typ*
isn't a type object.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct A (x y))
> (defstruct (B A) (z))
> (struct-subtype? A::t B::t)
#t
> (type-super B::t)
#<type #5 A>
> (type-super A::t)
#f
```
:::

## type-descriptor-mixin
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-mixin typ) -> list | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-mixin`. Returns the mixins of the type
as a list. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass A (x))
> (defclass (B A) (y))
> (defclass (C A) (z))
> (defclass (D B C) ())
> (type-descriptor-mixin D::t)
(#<type #8 B> #<type #9 C> #<type #10 A>)
> (type-descriptor-mixin B::t)
(#<type #10 A>)
> (type-descriptor-mixin A::t)
()
```
:::

## type-descriptor-fields
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-fields typ) -> fixnum | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-fields`. Returns the number of fields
of the type as a fixnum. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is
signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct color (r g b a))
> (type-descriptor-fields color::t)
4
```
:::

## type-descriptor-plist
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-plist typ) -> alist | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-plist`. Returns the type properties of
the type as an alist. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defstruct vec4d (x y z w) final: #t)
> (type-descriptor-plist vec4d::t)
((fields: x y z w) (final: . #t))
```
:::

## type-descriptor-ctor
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-ctor typ) -> symbol | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-ctor`. Returns the constructor ID of
the type as a symbol. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass A (x) constructor: :init!)
> (defmethod {:init! A}
    (lambda (self x)
      (set! (A-x self) (* x 2))))
> (type-descriptor-ctor A::t)
:init!
```
:::

## type-descriptor-slots
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-slots typ) -> hash-table | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-slots`. Returns the slots of the type
as a hash-table. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass color (r g b a))
> (type-descriptor-slots color::t)
#<table #6>
> (hash->list #6)
((r . 0) (g . 1) (b . 2) (a: . 3) (g: . 1) (b: . 2) (r: . 0) (a . 3))
```
:::

## type-descriptor-methods
``` scheme
(type-descriptor-methods typ) -> hash-table | error

  typ := type descriptor to inspect
```

Safe variant of `runtime#type-descriptor-methods`. Returns the methods
associated with the type as a hash-table. *typ* must be a type descriptor or an
error is signaled.

::: tip Examples:
``` scheme
> (defclass A (x) constructor: :init!)
> (defmethod {:init! A}
    (lambda (self x)
      (set! (A-x self) (* x 2))))
> (type-descriptor-methods A::t)
#<table #11>
> (hash->list #11)
((:init! . #<procedure #12 A:::init!>))
```
:::
