doc/reference/std/net/repl.md, before:

# Network REPL

Network repl for debugging live programs.

::: tip usage
(import :std/net/repl)
:::

## start-repl-server!
```
(start-repl-server! password: (passwd #f)
                    address: (address "127.0.0.1:7000"))
=> <server>

```

Starts a network REPL server.

## stop-repl-server!
```
(stop-repl-server! <server>)
```

Stops a REPL server

## taint!
```
REPL> (std/net/repl#taint! [tgroup])
  tgroup := thread-group; defaults to the primordial thread-group
=> <state>
```

Taints a thread-group, redirecting its repl ports to the repl server ports.
This is necessary to visit threads in the debugger.
Returns the thread-group specific state.

## untaint!
```
REPL> (std/net/repl#untaint! [tgroup [state]])
  tgroup := thread-group; defaults to the primordial thread-group
  state := any; defaults to #f
```

Untaints a thread-group, restoring its specific state.

## Loading the Expander

By default, once connected, the REPL does not load the Gerbil expander but
uses the primitive Gambit eval. This allows the REPL to be embedded to
static binaries without the requirement to embed the expander's environment.

You can load the expander on demand in executables with:
```
REPL> (gerbil-load-expander!)
```

Commit message:

Debugging section of the hyperspec (#978)
This fleshes out the debugging section in the development section of the
hyperspec and also makes sure `gerbil build --debug` works as
advertised.

doc/reference/std/net/repl.md, after:

# Network REPL

Network repl for debugging live programs.

::: tip usage
```scheme
(import :std/net/repl)
```
:::

## start-repl-server!
```
(start-repl-server! password: (passwd #f)
                    address: (address "127.0.0.1:7000"))
=> <server>

```

Starts a network REPL server.

## stop-repl-server!
```
(stop-repl-server! <server>)
```

Stops a REPL server

## taint!
```
REPL> (std/net/repl#taint! [tgroup])
  tgroup := thread-group; defaults to the primordial thread-group
=> <state>
```

Taints a thread-group, redirecting its repl ports to the repl server ports.
This is necessary to visit threads in the debugger.
Returns the thread-group specific state.

## untaint!
```
REPL> (std/net/repl#untaint! [tgroup [state]])
  tgroup := thread-group; defaults to the primordial thread-group
  state := any; defaults to #f
```

Untaints a thread-group, restoring its specific state.

## Loading the Expander

By default, once connected, the REPL does not load the Gerbil expander but
uses the primitive Gambit eval. This allows the REPL to be embedded in
binaries without the requirement to embed the expander's environment.

If you are debugging during development and thus have the expander environment,
you can load the expander on demand in running executables with:
```
REPL> (gerbil-load-expander!)
```
