doc/guide/build.md, before:

# The Standard Library Build Tool

Building complex libraries and executables by invoking `gxc` quickly gets tedious. When you reach that point of complexity and you need a build tool, you can use the [`:std/make` library module](../reference/make.md) which provides a modest build tool that can handle reasonably complex project building.

## The project source code

For illustration purposes, we'll make a hello world library module and an executable that uses it.

``` scheme
$ cat gerbil.pkg
(package: example)

$ cat util.ss
(export #t)
(def (hello who)
  (displayln "hello, " who))

$ cat hello.ss
(import :example/util)
(export main)

(def (main . args)
  (for-each hello args))
```

## The standard build script template

The recommended way to write a build script is to use the template provided by the standard library.
You can do this by importing `:std/build-script` and using the `defbuild-script` macro.

The macro defines a main function suitable for building packages either directly or through gpxkg.
The syntax is
``` scheme
(defbuild-script build-spec . settings)
```

Using this, the build script for our project is the following:

``` scheme
$ cat build.ss
#!/usr/bin/env gxi
(import :std/build-script)
(defbuild-script
  '("util"
    (exe: "hello")))
```

And we can build by invoking the script:
``` bash
$ chmod +x build.ss
$ ./build.ss
...
```

## Intermediate build scripts

Here is a build script that uses an environment variable to determine
whether to build a fully static binary or a normally linked binary:

```bash
$ cat build.ss
#!/usr/bin/env gxi
(import :std/build-script)
(defbuild-script
  `("util"
    ,(if (getenv "BUILD_STATIC_EXE" #f) '(static-exe: "hello") '(exe: "hello"))))
```

If you are in your development environment and building executables for your host, then you can just invoke it as
```bash
./build.ss
```

On the other hand, if you are building inside a docker container that
supports fully static binaries (say alpine or void linux), you can
just use the following to build a fully static binary:
```bash
BUILD_STATIC_EXE=t ./build.ss
```

Commit message:

doc/guide/build: use optimized-static-exe for release mode.

doc/guide/build.md, after:

# The Standard Library Build Tool

Building complex libraries and executables by invoking `gxc` quickly gets tedious. When you reach that point of complexity and you need a build tool, you can use the [`:std/make` library module](../reference/make.md) which provides a modest build tool that can handle reasonably complex project building.

## The project source code

For illustration purposes, we'll make a hello world library module and an executable that uses it.

``` scheme
$ cat gerbil.pkg
(package: example)

$ cat util.ss
(export #t)
(def (hello who)
  (displayln "hello, " who))

$ cat hello.ss
(import :example/util)
(export main)

(def (main . args)
  (for-each hello args))
```

## The standard build script template

The recommended way to write a build script is to use the template provided by the standard library.
You can do this by importing `:std/build-script` and using the `defbuild-script` macro.

The macro defines a main function suitable for building packages either directly or through gpxkg.
The syntax is
``` scheme
(defbuild-script build-spec . settings)
```

Using this, the build script for our project is the following:

``` scheme
$ cat build.ss
#!/usr/bin/env gxi
(import :std/build-script)
(defbuild-script
  '("util"
    (exe: "hello")))
```

And we can build by invoking the script:
``` bash
$ chmod +x build.ss
$ ./build.ss
...
```

## Intermediate build scripts

Here is a build script that uses an environment variable to determine
whether to build an optimized fully static binary or a normally linked binary:

```bash
$ cat build.ss
#!/usr/bin/env gxi
(import :std/build-script)
(defbuild-script
  `("util"
    ,(if (getenv "BUILD_RELEASE" #f) '(optimized-static-exe: "hello") '(exe: "hello"))))
```

If you are in your development environment and building executables for your host, then you can just invoke it as
```bash
./build.ss
```

On the other hand, if you are building inside a docker container that
supports fully static binaries (say alpine or void linux), you can
just use the following to build an optimized fully static binary:
```bash
BUILD_RELEASE=t ./build.ss
```

::: tip Note
You may need to pass some linker flags in your build spec, using
`(optimized-static-exe: <module> "-ld-options" "...")`.  This might be
necessary because the compiler cannot tell what the tree shaker will
eliminate and thus it is not prudent to automatically link all stdlib
foreign dependencies.
:::
