doc/guide/docker.md, before:

# Gerbil in Docker

You can run Gerbil in docker using our prebuilt containers.

We offer two official docker images based on Alpine Linux:
- `gerbil` is the base image, with a default install without any additional features configured.
- `gerbilxx` is the full image, with all features and C++ enabled.

Alpine was chosen due to the static compilation environment and capabilities it provides.

If you want to build your own container, perhaps based on some other
distribution, you can use our
[Dockerfile](https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil/tree/master/docker/Dockerfile).

## Running Gerbil in Docker

`docker run -it gerbil/gerbil` will invoke the Gerbil repl.

## Building static executable binaries using the `gerbilxx` image.

Here is an example of building a static binary for a gerbil project.

### `build.ss`
```
#!/usr/bin/env gxi
;; -*- Gerbil -*-

(import :std/build-script)

(defbuild-script
  '("confluence/client"
    (exe: "confluence/confluence")))
```

### `Makefile`
```
PROJECT := confluence

ARCH := $(shell uname -m)
DOCKER_IMAGE := "gerbil/gerbilxx:$(ARCH)"

default: linux-static-docker

build-release:
	/opt/gerbil/bin/gxpkg link $(PROJECT) /src || true
	/opt/gerbil/bin/gxpkg build --release $(PROJECT)

linux-static-docker: clean
	docker run -it \
	-e GERBIL_PATH=/src/.gerbil \
	-v $(PWD):/src:z \
	$(DOCKER_IMAGE) \
	make -C /src build-release

clean:
	rm -rf .gerbil

install:
	mv .gerbil/bin/$(PROJECT) /usr/local/bin/$(PROJECT)
```

Commit message:

Move Foreign Packages out of tree as external packages (#914)
All the optional features with foreign dependencies are gone into
external packages:
- https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil-mysql
- https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil-leveldb
- https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil-lmdb
- https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil-libyaml
- https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil-libxml

doc/guide/docker.md, after:

# Gerbil in Docker

You can run Gerbil in docker using our prebuilt containers.

We offer two official docker images based on Alpine Linux:
- `gerbil` is the base image, configured  without shared libraries.
- `gerbilxx` is the full image, configured without shared libraries and with C++ enabled.
  It also includes all the foreign dependencies required by the officially supported
  external packages.

Alpine was chosen due to the static compilation environment and capabilities it provides.

If you want to build your own container, perhaps based on some other
distribution, you can use our
[Dockerfile](https://github.com/mighty-gerbils/gerbil/tree/master/docker/Dockerfile).

## Running Gerbil in Docker

`docker run -it gerbil/gerbil` will invoke the Gerbil repl.

## Building static executable binaries using the `gerbilxx` image.

Here is an example of building a static binary for a gerbil project.

### `build.ss`
```
#!/usr/bin/env gxi
;; -*- Gerbil -*-

(import :std/build-script)

(defbuild-script
  '("confluence/client"
    (exe: "confluence/confluence")))
```

### `Makefile`
```
PROJECT := confluence

ARCH := $(shell uname -m)
DOCKER_IMAGE := "gerbil/gerbilxx:$(ARCH)"

default: linux-static-docker

build-release:
	/opt/gerbil/bin/gxpkg link $(PROJECT) /src || true
	/opt/gerbil/bin/gxpkg build --release $(PROJECT)

linux-static-docker: clean
	docker run -it \
	-e GERBIL_PATH=/src/.gerbil \
	-v $(PWD):/src:z \
	$(DOCKER_IMAGE) \
	make -C /src build-release

clean:
	rm -rf .gerbil

install:
	mv .gerbil/bin/$(PROJECT) /usr/local/bin/$(PROJECT)
```
