doc/guide/env-vars.md, before:

# Environment Variables

Gerbil uses a few environment variables, which affect the behaviour of the runtime
and toolchain:
- `GERBIL_HOME`
- `GERBIL_PATH`
- `GERBIL_LOADPATH`

## GERBIL_HOME

This is the root of your Gerbil installation.

The runtime expects the gerbil system modules to be located in
`$GERBIL_HOME/lib`, which is set as the first component of the runtime
load path. The compiler also expects to find system static compilation
artifacts there.

This variable must be set for dynamic executables to be able to load
the runtime.  `gxi` and `gxc` can deduce it automatically from their
installation path if it's not set.

## GERBIL_PATH

This is the root of your Gerbil workspace, which is the read-write
component of the system. If it's not set, then it defaults to `~/.gerbil`.

The runtime adds `$GERBIL_PATH/lib` as the second component of the
runtime load path.

The toolchain uses `$GERBIL_PATH` as default artifact output directory:
- `gxc` outputs compiled modules to `$GERBIL_PATH/lib`, unless otherwise
  instructed.
- `:std/make` outputs compiled modules to `$GERBIL_PATH/lib` and binaries
  to `$GERBIL_PATH/bin`, unless otherwise instructed.

## GERBIL_LOADPATH

This is a colon separated list of directories to be appended to the
runtime load path.  You can use this for loading site specific
libraries. By default it's unset, which is equivalent to an empty
value.

## GERBIL_GSC

This is the program name or path to the `gsc` compiler executable;
defaults to `gsc` (or to full path to `gsc`, on a Nix build).

This variable is used by `Gerbil v0.14-DEV-73-g7a2a91c1` and later; earlier versions
hardcode `gsc` as the compiler program name.

## GERBIL_GXC

This is the program name or path to the `gxc` compiler executable;
defaults to `gxc` (or to full path to `gxc`, on a Nix build).
Currently it is only used by `std/make` and `std/build-script`,
and only when building software in parallel (which is now the default,
but can be disabled with the `GERBIL_BUILD_CORES` variable below).

This variable is used by `Gerbil v0.16-DEV-560` and later;
earlier versions did not have a parallel build.

## GERBIL_BUILD_CORES

This is the number of cores that `std/make` and `std/build-script` will use
when building Gerbil programs, by spawning accordingly many compiler processes in parallel,
(mostly instances of `gxc`, `gsc` and `gcc`).
If a `parallel:` argument is provided to `make` or `defbuild-script`,
it will take precedence over this variable.
If no such argument is provided and the variable is undefined or invalid,
the number of cores present is auto-detected from the Operating System and used.

You can wholly disable parallelism by exporting `GERBIL_BUILD_CORES=0`,
at which point the Gerbil part of compilation will be done in the current process.
By contrast, `GERBIL_BUILD_CORES=1` enforces use of subprocesses for Gerbil compilation,
even though only one process will be run at once.

This variable is used by `Gerbil v0.16-DEV-560` and later;
earlier versions did not have a parallel build.

Commit message:

Welcome to the Future, Part III (#783)
* update README

* improve build feedback messages

* README: add note about dependencies in default build

* install: fix behaviour of install script for multiple installations

* update getting started guide

* update guide

* install gambit.el next to gerbil.el

* doc: update guide

* some more guide updates

doc/guide/env-vars.md, after:

# Environment Variables

Gerbil uses a few environment variables, which affect the behaviour of the runtime
and toolchain:
- `GERBIL_PATH`
- `GERBIL_LOADPATH`

## GERBIL_PATH

This is the root of your Gerbil workspace, which is the read-write
component of the system. If it's not set, then it defaults to `~/.gerbil`.

The runtime adds `$GERBIL_PATH/lib` as the second component of the
runtime load path.

The toolchain uses `$GERBIL_PATH` as default artifact output directory:
- `gxc` outputs compiled modules to `$GERBIL_PATH/lib`, unless otherwise
  instructed.
- `:std/make` outputs compiled modules to `$GERBIL_PATH/lib` and binaries
  to `$GERBIL_PATH/bin`, unless otherwise instructed.

## GERBIL_LOADPATH

This is a colon separated list of directories to be appended to the
runtime load path.  You can use this for loading site specific
libraries. By default it's unset, which is equivalent to an empty
value.

## GERBIL_GXC

This is the program name or path to the `gxc` compiler executable;
defaults to `gxc` (or to full path to `gxc`, on a Nix build).
Currently it is only used by `std/make` and `std/build-script`,
and only when building software in parallel (which is now the default,
but can be disabled with the `GERBIL_BUILD_CORES` variable below).

## GERBIL_GCC

This is the program name or path to `gcc`; defaults to `gcc` resolving from your `$PATH`..

## GERBIL_AR

This is the program name or path to the `ar` executable; defaults to `ar` resolving from your `$PATH`.

## GERBIL_BUILD_CORES

This is the number of cores that `std/make` and `std/build-script` will use
when building Gerbil programs, by spawning accordingly many compiler processes in parallel,
(mostly instances of `gxc`, `gsc` and `gcc`).
If a `parallel:` argument is provided to `make` or `defbuild-script`,
it will take precedence over this variable.
If no such argument is provided and the variable is undefined or invalid,
the number of cores present is auto-detected from the Operating System and used.

You can wholly disable parallelism by exporting `GERBIL_BUILD_CORES=0`,
at which point the Gerbil part of compilation will be done in the current process.
By contrast, `GERBIL_BUILD_CORES=1` enforces use of subprocesses for Gerbil compilation,
even though only one process will be run at once.
