doc/reference/README.md, before:

# Introduction

This is the reference documentation for Gerbil.  We aim to
exhaustively document the Scheme primitives, the Gambit primitives, the Gerbil [core prelude](gerbil/prelude/README.md), [runtime builtins](gerbil/runtime/README.md), the
[standard library](std/README.md), and the Meta-[expander context](gerbil/expander/README.md).

The idea of extensive and easy to use documentation is at our forefront. This is still a WIP and there's more to come. If you need certain things now see the [R5RS](https://schemers.org/Documents/Standards/R5RS/HTML/) document for basic Scheme primitives used as a part of our prelude along with the [Gambit Manual](https://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~gambit/doc/gambit.html) for our underlying implementation internals. 

If you're viewing this as a webpage online almost every page has a link whereby you can edit and request a commit. Even if it's just pointing out the issue every part helps.

When information is missing, out of date, or unclear, it's a bug! If you cannot edit try to contact us (by email, on Gitter or GitHub, etc.) and we'll get it done.

Commit message:

Use c3 linearization in the MOP (#1033)
Runtime improvements

MOP:
- Use c3 linearization for class precedence list.
- Implement and use the C3 linearization algorithm for multiple inheritance.
- Unify struct fields and class slots, using struct inheritance then class precedence list for slot order. This improves on previous semantics, but introduces a slight incompatibility and will require updating the optimizer.
- Accordingly update various modules in std.

Also:
- Define defmutable in prelude.
- Add a (dump-backtrace?) parameter to control backtrace printing.
- Support build-manifest in the runtime.
- Move DBG macro in the runtime for past and future debugging.

Regenerate bootstrap.

doc/reference/README.md, after:

# Introduction

This is the reference documentation for Gerbil.  We aim to
exhaustively document the Scheme primitives, the Gambit primitives, the Gerbil [core prelude](gerbil/prelude/README.md), [runtime builtins](gerbil/runtime/README.md), the
[standard library](std/README.md), and the Meta-[expander context](gerbil/expander/README.md).
We also have a [guide for developers of Gerbil](dev/README.md).

The idea of extensive and easy to use documentation is at our forefront. This is still a WIP and there's more to come. If you need certain things now see the [R5RS](https://schemers.org/Documents/Standards/R5RS/HTML/) document for basic Scheme primitives used as a part of our prelude along with the [Gambit Manual](https://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~gambit/doc/gambit.html) for our underlying implementation internals.

If you're viewing this as a webpage online almost every page has a link whereby you can edit and request a commit. Even if it's just pointing out the issue every part helps.

When information is missing, out of date, or unclear, it's a bug! If you cannot edit try to contact us (by email, on Gitter or GitHub, etc.) and we'll get it done.
